# Data-VIsualisation-with-excel
About this project
This is a simple Sales Dashboard for an imaginary Coffee shop created in Excel, it  provides interactive,  visually engaging and a fundamental insights into the sales activities and trends of this organisation, providing key performance indicators such as average price of products, revenue earned, relationship between time and products sales.

**Key Tasks Performed**_

**Data Collection & Cleaning:**
Sourced for the dataset online and proceeded to cleaning and transforming the raw data to make it fit for analysis.
Pivoting and tabling:
Proceeded to creating pivot tables for each visual representations
**Dashboard & Visualization Development:**
Designed an elementary Excel dashboard 
Created interactive visuals that answered questions like:
*What is the total revenue earned?, what is average price of the products?, how many products gets sold?(KPI cards)
*Which products sells the most?! What's the relationship between the quantity sold and revenue generated by products?(Table chart)
*What time of the day do the shops earn more? (Line chart)
*How has the months impacted the amount of revenue the shops generated?!(Line chart)
*What category of products generates more revenue? Do the shop coffee still slap? Or we should look into our bakeries more? Or is tea the way to go?! (Bar chart)
Then ,How do these vary across the shops location?, what of days of the week?, How do they affect all these questions?(slicers)
**Insight:**

1. The total number of products sold is 149,116, which generated a total income of $698,812 while average price of products is $3.38.
2. Of the three locations of the shops, Hell's kitchen sells the most number of products at 50,735 product sold, while it's also unsurprisingly the biggest revenue generator with a total of $236.511 generated.
3.  Brewed chai tea is the hottest products among all the shops, with a total of 17,184 pieces sold, albeit it's not the biggest revenue generator that sole position belongs to Barista Expresso which raked in a sum of $91,406 across all locations.
4.  The most important time of the day is  10am a huge total of 18,545 pieces are sold around this time of the day which has totaled to a sum of $88673 earned.
5.  Over the months there as been an increasingly rise in sales trend, with a steady increase in amount of revenue earned
6.  Most popular category of products is unsurprising the amazing coffee which has helped bring in a total of $58416 in revenue.
Note: This analysis was made with an imaginary dataset on excel, and made to be easy to read and simple.
Thank you.

